# LarryPage-algorithm

*GOOD TO KNOW:

When search engines like Google display search results, they do so by placing more “important” and higher-quality pages higher in the search results than less important pages. The PageRank algorithm was created by Google’s co-founders (including Larry Page, for whom the algorithm was named). In PageRank’s algorithm, a website is more important if it is linked to by other important websites, and links from less important websites have their links weighted less.

Random Surfer Model:

One way to think about PageRank is with the random surfer model, which considers the behavior of a hypothetical surfer on the internet who clicks on links at random. A page’s PageRank, then, can be described as the probability that a random surfer is on that page at any given time. After all, if there are more links to a particular page, then it’s more likely that a random surfer will end up on that page. Moreover, a link from a more important site is more likely to be clicked on than a link from a less important site that fewer pages link to, so this model handles weighting links by their importance as well. To ensure we can always get to somewhere else in the corpus of web pages, we’ll introduce to our model a damping factor d. With probability d (where d is usually set around 0.85), the random surfer will choose from one of the links on the current page at random. But otherwise (with probability 1 - d), the random surfer chooses one out of all of the pages in the corpus at random (including the one they are currently on). Our random surfer now starts by choosing a page at random, and then, for each additional sample we’d like to generate, chooses a link from the current page at random with probability d, and chooses any page at random with probability 1 - d. If we keep track of how many times each page has shown up as a sample, we can treat the proportion of states that were on a given page as its PageRank.

Iterative Algorithm:

We can also define a page’s PageRank using a recursive mathematical expression. Let PR(p) be the PageRank of a given page p: the probability that a random surfer ends up on that page. How do we define PR(p)? Well, we know there are two ways that a random surfer could end up on the page:

  With probability 1 - d, the surfer chose a page at random and ended up on page p.
  With probability d, the surfer followed a link from a page i to page p.

The first condition is fairly straightforward to express mathematically: it’s 1 - d divided by N, where N is the total number of pages across the entire corpus. This is because the 1 - d probability of choosing a page at random is split evenly among all N possible pages.
For the second condition, we need to consider each possible page i that links to page p. For each of those incoming pages, let NumLinks(i) be the number of links on page i. Each page i that links to p has its own PageRank, PR(i), representing the probability that we are on page i at any given time. And since from page i we travel to any of that page’s links with equal probability, we divide PR(i) by the number of links NumLinks(i) to get the probability that we were on page i and chose the link to page p.
This gives us the following definition for the PageRank for a page p:

  PR(p) = ((1-d)/N) + d.(SUM(PR(i)/NumLinks(i)))

In this formula, d is the damping factor, N is the total number of pages in the corpus, i ranges over all pages that link to page p, and NumLinks(i) is the number of links present on page i.*

Open up pagerank.py. Notice first the definition of two constants at the top of the file: DAMPING represents the damping factor and is initially set to 0.85. SAMPLES represents the number of samples we’ll use to estimate PageRank using the sampling method, initially set to 10,000 samples.
Now, take a look at the main function. It expects a command-line argument, which will be the name of a directory of a corpus of web pages we’d like to compute PageRanks for. The crawl function takes that directory, parses all of the HTML files in the directory, and returns a dictionary representing the corpus. The keys in that dictionary represent pages (e.g., "2.html"), and the values of the dictionary are a set of all of the pages linked to by the key (e.g. {"1.html", "3.html"}).

The main function calls the sample_pagerank function, whose purpose is to estimate the PageRank of each page by sampling. The function takes as arguments the corpus of pages generated by crawl, as well as the damping factor and number of samples to use. Ultimately, sample_pagerank returns a dictionary where the keys are each page name and the values are each page’s estimated PageRank (a number between 0 and 1).

The main function also calls the iterate_pagerank function, which will also calculate PageRank for each page, but using the iterative formula method instead of by sampling. 
